<div wrapper="1" role="_abstract">

You can investigate OpenShift CLI (`oc`) issues by increasing the log level to get more detailed diagnostic information.

</div>

# Understanding OpenShift CLI (`oc`) log levels

<div wrapper="1" role="_abstract">

With the OpenShift CLI (`oc`), you can create applications and manage OpenShift Container Platform projects from a terminal.

</div>

If `oc` command-specific issues arise, increase the `oc` log level to output API request, API response, and `curl` request details generated by the command. This provides a granular view of a particular `oc` command’s underlying operation, which in turn might provide insight into the nature of a failure.

`oc` log levels range from 1 to 10. The following table provides a list of `oc` log levels, along with their descriptions.

| Log level | Description |
|----|----|
| 1 to 5 | No additional logging to stderr. |
| 6 | Log API requests to stderr. |
| 7 | Log API requests and headers to stderr. |
| 8 | Log API requests, headers, and body, plus API response headers and body to stderr. |
| 9 | Log API requests, headers, and body, API response headers and body, plus `curl` requests to stderr. |
| 10 | Log API requests, headers, and body, API response headers and body, plus `curl` requests to stderr, in verbose detail. |

OpenShift CLI (`oc`) log levels

# Specifying OpenShift CLI (`oc`) log levels

<div wrapper="1" role="_abstract">

You can investigate OpenShift CLI (`oc`) issues by increasing the command’s log level.

</div>

The OpenShift Container Platform user’s current session token is typically included in logged `curl` requests where required. You can also obtain the current user’s session token manually, for use when testing aspects of an `oc` command’s underlying process step-by-step.

<div>

<div class="title">

Prerequisites

</div>

- Install the OpenShift CLI (`oc`).

</div>

<div>

<div class="title">

Procedure

</div>

- Specify the `oc` log level when running an `oc` command:

  ``` terminal
  $ oc <command> --loglevel <log_level>
  ```

  where:

  \<command\>
  Specifies the command you are running.

  \<log_level\>
  Specifies the log level to apply to the command.

- To obtain the current user’s session token, run the following command:

  ``` terminal
  $ oc whoami -t
  ```

  <div class="formalpara">

  <div class="title">

  Example output

  </div>

  ``` text
  sha256~RCV3Qcn7H-OEfqCGVI0CvnZ6...
  ```

  </div>

</div>
